we are sorted a group of mates who have
your back when it comes to all things
food from cooking battles to gadget
reviews and cookbook challenges to a
midweek meal packs app crack your eggs
we uncover the tools that will help us
all cook and eat smarter join our
community where everything we do starts
with you it's early and I don't even
know what we're doing so well I think
you do know what we're doing because
there's a big box with a question mark
on it behind you shall I open it carrots
celery eggs onions a lot of these are
just unused ingredients that we have
left in the studio so I thought we'd
talk the ante please turn to page 218
100 layer the Sonia
it's the recipes four pages long you
honestly think we can do this this
recipe was invented by a chef called
mark Ladner in the US it's just the most
ridiculous lasagne I've ever seen very
thin layers so it's not like a normal is
that your way you kind of like row on
the ragout and the bechamel it's very
thin layers of each we've got been but
lovely been it was gonna dial in and see
what we have made together
this can't be a time limit there's no
time that honestly I'm excited and
filled with dread all at the same time
it's a very odd feeling that's why I
like
should we do this buddy what I want to
do first make it tomato sauce you've
made love tomato sauces yep in batches
in a food processor blend the tomatoes
until the juices are smooth we're gonna
have to use a smoothie maker smoothly
makers are so we need a large saucepan
over here and you want to get extra
virgin olive oil extra virgin yeah which
is interesting it's not a lot of people
fry an extra virgin olive oil and then
10 cloves of garlic 10 okay I think the
oils hot one thing you never want to do
is garlic into olive oil that's starting
to brown nice you could just put its top
in the tomatoes in just pull them
straight in ice
so splashing it's like a volcano the
dough uses 15 egg yolks that which it
feels like a lot 15 egg yolks what am I
supposed to do with 15 egg whites we
have that what happens to that sauce now
okay so have you added the sugar and the
salt no okay
get the sugar and the salt in there and
then that simmers for about an hour and
a half what it needs to reduce by
two-thirds so it's gonna be like a super
super intense tomato sauce and weird
start to a sofrito you've got to get a
food processor three really thick rushes
yeah I'll just go strange the food
processor with the garlic we blend it up
to a paste on
it's like watch the it looks good yeah
right you're gonna transfer that to a
bowl and then in the same processor
you're gonna put the carrots and celery
we don't want to puree that we just want
to chop it that's okay so we're adding
some oil over a medium-low heat and then
you need to find me chop an onion
ah my eyes then we add the carrot and
celery mix reduce the heat cook until
the mixture is tender and sweet which is
about 40 minutes 40 minutes 40 minutes
I'm washing up everything minty thank
you okay so you're making it well oh no
I've got to make a wealth of 15 egg
yolks yeah I should have done this in a
bowl I know right so am I just
separating these now yeah cool separate
Oh done right now what fork mix he says
that you should be able to incorporate
about half the egg yolks that be such a
fork and then you can tend to out and
start kneading it here we go look at
this see I think with your with your
knowledge now you can understand how it
should feel
stop saying things like with your
knowledge that's so expected next time I
do this can you also deliver me a stand
mixer with a dough hook take the Italian
sauce that mrs. fun happen to this thing
fill their recipe says let it rest a
room temperature for at least 15 minutes
or up to an hour I think we're in a good
place
okay
[Music]
have you got another source but I've got
this yeah I've got a big casserole dish
yeah yeah yeah okay get it on the heat
because that'll take a while to eat up
there's tomato sauce everywhere so half
a turn spoon of oil in the pan and then
pancetta mixture goes in medium heat and
we're gonna break the pancetta mixed it
up into small bits and the spatula and
the reason you want to over medium heat
is so that fat renders out I'd say that
is reduced very thick so now we're gonna
add the basil to the tomato sauce and
now we've just got the pancetta
we'll wait that's Chris but once that's
Chris stuff we'll put the sofrito into
the pancetta oh my goodness it smells
amazing couple of minutes and then the
mince goes in pork beef and then we're
gonna add the tomato puree yeah let's do
it you want butter put over a medium
heat plain flour and milk that's going
to take about five minutes
should we go wild and add add some wine
to the meat we're actually doing two
things at once here and I'm excited so
you can be quite generous with the milk
if you whisk I think I got a half thing
is thickening up really quickly right
that cooks for about seven more minutes
and then that's gonna go into a freezer
bag hmm this amount of liquid looks
bigger than your average sandwich hmm
and now this tomato sauce has got going
in here
okay so now we are gonna roll out pasta
into scant one millimeter thick sheets
they're gonna be 15 by 15 centimeter
square
so I don't think you can afford to waste
any of this pasture okay so use your
hands to shape it use your hands okay
now now I've torn it we need or at the
beach piece of pasta love that we're
using a tape measure right now this is
great this is kind of cooking that I
like little bit thin that's that's quite
thin
it looks pretty thin
right we have pasta sheets the next step
is to boil them or more accurately
blanch them so to spoil them for one
minute and then refresh them in cold
water so that they stop cooking because
this is so thin they're gonna cook
really fast and then we're just going to
put them around the edge of a pan or a
bowl to dry out a little bit and cool
down so the milk goes into the ragu
after it cooks for an hour and that
simmers for another 10 minutes so the
first thing we want to do is spread
about a tablespoon of tomato sauce over
the base of the ditch next up a pasta
sheet ok nice so now it's another
tablespoon of tomato sauce this could
take an hour just to put it together
tell me that you bought pre grated
Parmesan cheese I did oh you're a genius
grab your bechamel you want to cut a
little hole in the corner of your zag
now you want to sprinkle over about two
tablespoons of ragu guess what we do it
all over again yeah under times this is
a frigging nightmare
[Music]
we ready for this let me see it oh my
goodness
that is a hot mess so now we have to
chill it until all the layers weight
back together I mean the very top of its
brush the ice I'm so stressed out well
now we wait
so shall I just go for this I'm gonna
need to soar it I don't know if it's
done I think go for it okay just just go
like quickly down by the picture
Wow that's good yeah you've got it now I
can't believe this is work to serve
preheat the oven to 350 degrees
Fahrenheit that's 180 degrees Celsius in
a large nonstick frying pan heat a
tablespoon of oil and half a teaspoon of
butter so what do you reckon just one of
these yeah I'm going for it I've
committed it's all the way down lovely
that good catch good Kat Kit Kat lay it
down gently try to get oil underneath it
yes yes it's in and it's held together
so at 3 to 4 minutes or until it's deep
golden in the meantime you can get a
baking tray out line it with some baking
paper once it's done you're just gonna
transfer it to that I can't watch
I can't watch so nervous it looks a
little darker than I might have light
yes I
[Music]
Oh oh what a day stop sticking you
should have it Oh deal with it
lovely that's exactly what after did you
just see for no I think that looks
amazing look at that you did it
[Music]
oh we are okay what a day
vicious when I heard what you were doing
ready I looking forward to the puddle
this is what we've made oh my word this
is one slice this is quite impressive
but it's nothing in comparison to this
what you've got for little bit of wobble
there go James it's been so for long but
it's such an amazing sense of
achievement looks epic I'm gonna have to
eat it and tell you what it tastes like
Cheers
oh wow it's fantastic do you know what
wow it's so so good the pasta really
needs to be bribed on that side because
otherwise everything else is just a
really easy
melty texture just check-in though
everything you made was fresh right so
it could be frozen and when this is all
over you could bring it in for James
nice to try some yeah honestly John me
too I'll freeze that massive thing well
look the wobble on the board looks epic
it's obviously got incredible structure
and is actually holding it kind of feels
like it's fictional it looks like
something from a fairy tale and as far
as I'm concerned
massive pass James well done we did it
knowing you've been doing this all day
I've just been sick sat in anticipation
waiting to see the result I've quite
literally got Everest in washing-up form
so you know I might get to sleep by 1:00
a.m. can you make the next one easier
please
[Music]
we've also built the sorted Club where
you can get tons of foodie inspo using
the packs midweek meal app discover and
share restaurant recommendations using
their eat app listen and contribute to
our feast your ears podcast and send us
ideas for new cookbooks you'll receive
throughout the year check it all out by
heading to sorted dot Club
[Music]
and now a blooper this is already going
badly